

Human eye more sensitive to brighness than color processing images in rgb is result is unreal and unpleasing to eye so RGB TO HSI.

intensity -equal amounts of light.
RGB 6 Saturation. White light is caused by equal amounts of each of R, G and B. If we take the
minimum one of these and subtract that amount from each of R, G and B, then we eliminate the grayscale
(intensity) and what is left has only two color components instead of three (the minimum one is now zero).
Thus this new color has no white light pollution and so it is fully saturated and represents a single wavelength
(see Figure 8.2) or a combination of only two primary colors. It is the saturation. Because I has a maximum
value of 1 here, we can take saturation =1-min(rgb);

//To convert a pixel (H, S, I) in the opposite direction to (R, G, B), we
  consider the cases where the point P isin one of the following regions of the chromaticity triangle: H < 120°
  (red-green), 120° < H < 240° (green-blue), or else 240° < H < 360° (blue-red).


Opengl built in functions;
isinf and innan

IDEAS:normazlized color effect(hue or saturation get anim fx)
1.subtracting minimun value of same value from rgb(adding light ,polliutin to the color);
2.when increaing hue only two color values increase and the third one should not.cause hue is (only two colors after subtracting grAY VALUE FROM RGB)
3.saturaction is change by muliplying >and <1 and hue is changed using by inc and dec;
4.processing similar to grayscale can be done on intensity.
5.tranlate,scale,rotate sheer pg(110)(inverse transforms better.)
6.Difference image
7.Shades ,Tones and Tints,Exposure ,shadows ,highlights(intensity level slizing), contrast,invert i in hsi;
8..MONOCROME SET auu hues to same and check changing sat //Groma gray+monochrome
9.Try all gray scale processing on individual components of r,g,b.
10.Histogram for r,g,b,h,s,i,total intensity
11,Tint,Temperature,fade ,sharpen,saturation,contrast,exposure,intensity;
12.grayscale images taking one of r,g,b,c,m,y,k,h,s,i;
13.multiply histogram (intensity)or any graphs with sinusoid to gen noise;
14.exposuew triangle
15.invert whole and only one of r,g,b,; invert intensity 255-i;
16.check cfd for histogram before and after equalization after eq it should be straigbline
17.Histogram matching(specification ) implement; Local histogram processing as well

Values:
range of eye focal length 14 to 17 mm.
book 1 page 61 image height captured by eyed r
visible spectrum - 0.43um(voilet) to 0.79um(red)
dynamic range - highest/lowest intensity values.
contrast = highest - lowest intensity;

ImageProcessing theroy:
.cones sensitive to color rod give overall picture of field of view and sensitve low levels of illumination(dim light vison).
.in cameras focal length is same but distance beteen image plane and lens is adusted for focusing at various distances whereas in eyes
the distance is fix and  proper focus is acheived varying shape of lens.
.E=hv;light (wave and particle)
.intensity<-> graylevel;
.other than frquency quality of chromatic light is described by radiance,illuminace,brighnes.
.spacial resolution can be line pairs per unit distance,dots per unit distance.
  scaling: nearest neighbour,bilinear,bicubic,splines,wavelets etc
  Adjaceny of pixels;
  Distance Measures:
  Fuzzy sets:
  Arithmatice operation between pixel pairs,averagin imagaes for having noise,subrating for dofferemces,diviede/muliply for shading correction.
 Geometric spacial Transforms(110 pg)=spacial transforms(trs sheer(affline tranform) and intensity interpolation.

 CH-3:spacial Processing:

 intensity transformation(single pixels) and spacial filtering(neighbour hood like sharpening).
 spacial filtering has neighbourhood with predefined operation(determines the filetering process) called spacial filter(spacial mask,kernel,template or window),the
 smallest neighbourhood is 1x1 in which case is intensity(graylevel or mapping) transformation.

 Contrast Streching:getting higher contrast by darkening intesities below k and brightening above k.(pg 129) through thresholding function

 Image Enhancement:is process of manipulating image so that it is better for a specific application.
        Intensity Transformation functs:linear(identity,negative),logarthmic(log ,inverse log),power-law(nth power and root).
          image negative:L-1-r;(l is 256,r is input pix value)(dark regions enhacnce)

          logarhmic:clog(1+r);c-const,r>=0,narrow range of intensity to wider range of intensity values ,expand dark pixel in image while  compressing
          higher level values opposite is true for inverse log.(maybe shadows and highlights) exponential and lgorthmic are inverese funcion mirror about y=x;
          (spreadin adn compressiong of intensity values) log function compress dynamic range of image with large variation of pixel values while for non large
          variation power law may be considered.(lower intensities increase much while higher remains almost same_

          Powelaw  transformations:(gamma correction ,contrast manipulation)
          s=crpowerg where c and g are positive constants

      Piecewise linea Transformations:complementary approach to above methods:(r represents input,s represents output)(thrresolding up and down)
          constrast_Strching:
          expand range of intensity levels in image so it spans the full range of recording medium or display device
                points (r1,s1) and (r2,s2) control the shape of transormaton function,if r1=s1 and r2=s2 then it is a linear func with no change;
                assuming r1<=r2 and s1<=s2  various value of these gives various degree of spread of intensity thus affecting contrast.
                                if(r1=r2)and s1=0 and s2=L-1 then its a thresolding function with giving binary image.
                //check (r1,s1=(rmin,0) and r2,s2=(rmax,L-1) or instead of rmax rmin uses average intensity


        Intensity Level slicing:(highlights)
        two variation-1)increase(decrease) inteseities betwwen a range and lower all other .2)increase of decresase between range and other raming same or aboutt the mean.

        Bit-plane slicing:
        instead of highlighting the intensity-level ranges we can highlight the contributin made to total image appearance by specific bits
        8bits-8 planes
        each bit plane is a binary image
        higher signifance bits store more relevant to images so storing images with top 4 bit planes can lead to reductin in storage by 50% while not changing much visually



     HISTOGRAM PROCESSING:

     h(rk)=nk,where rk is intensity of kth pixel and nk is number of pixels with instensity rk
     normalized histogram P(rk)=nk/MN,where m and n are row and coloums(which is probabilit of ocuurance of rk in image)
        EQUALIZATION(or)Linearization transform funct:(adaptive contrast enhancement)
        s=T(r)
        .T(r) is monotonically increasing means output pixel value never less than input
        that thus no artifacts when reversing function;
        ps(s)=pr(r)*(ds/dr)->probabillity density as intensity value is a random variable and T(r) is contiuus and differntialble;

        eqalized out sk=((L-1)/MN) * sigma j=0 to k  nj where k=0 to L-1 (L =max 2powerr8 =256

        images with same contnt have similar historgrams even if the contrasts differ

        Histogram matching:(pg152)
        The method used to generate a processed image that has specifed histogram is called histogram matching or histogram speecification;

        LOcal Histogram Processing:

        Spatial Filtering:
        Filtering -> allow or rejecting certain frequencies;
        mask or kernel size m,n where m and n shoud be odd and minimum is 3x3;
        correlation sum of products of filter coeffect with pixels.convultion same but rotate filter 180 before;
        if filter mask is symmertric correlation and convultion yield same results;

        Averaging filetr:covulutil/correlation with weights as 1/m*n(summation of coefficeints);sigma(w*f(x));
        gaussian filetr= f(x,y)=exp -(xpow2 +ypow2)/2 sigma pow2 ;sigma ->standard deviation;

        Smoothing Filters:(averaging or lowpass filters);
            blurring and noise reduction;reduces sharp transitions in intensities in images;(because random noise typically has sharp transitions in intesitei);
            but some times edges that also have sharp transition are blurred so some time smoothing filters are not recommended;these do reduce irrelavant information (in pixel region smaller than the mask);
            filter with all equal coefficents is often called box filter;some times smaller images(than mask) could be removed with smoothig and big objects can be bloated making way for object detection;
            ->check weighted average giveing centre more wight(4) and the diagonal one and perpedicluar two and dived by sum of coefficents;

            Linear:
            



     






          CH_6 color Image Processing:

          achromatic -has only intensity(gray level).
          three quantities used to descibe quality of chromatic light SOURCe - radiance,luminance, and brightness,
          radiance is total amount of energy that flows from light source(measured in watts).
          luminance is amount of energy observer percieves from light source(lumens).
          brightness practically impossible to measure(embodies achromatic notion of intensity and one of keyFacts in describing color sensation)
          Primary colors RGB;primary color of light is one that subracts(R) or absorbs(primary color) of lightand reflects/transmits the other two(G,B).
          primary and secondary colors of pigments are inverted of primary color of light.
          primary color added to get secondary colors b+g=cyan ,r+b=magenta, r+g=yellow,

          characteristics that distingushes one color from another are hue ,saturation,brightness(intensity)
          hue represents the dominant color as percieved by an observer whereas (red,green ,orange etc colors),whereas the saturation
          is relative purity of amount of white light mixed with a hue.

           hue + saturation =chromaticity ,therfore ,a color may be characterised by chromacity and brightness

           COlor modees;
           rgb,cmy,cmyk(blaack -k),hsi.

           pseudocolor ImageProcessing:
           pSeudocolor(false-color) image processing consists of assigning colors to gray values  based on specified criteria

           Intensity(density) slicinng:(which i did as thresolding for binary image);
                 try anime affect
                 vaue above certain value get one value and below get other value (try for r,g,b,h,s,i);
                 any processing can be done in any color space hsi,rgb,cmy,for ex to chang intesity just changing i in hsi is enogu whereas in rgb all three should be added to change intensity;

           COlor Balance:
      BAsics of full color image processing:
      color image can be though of vecor of r,g,b(h,s,i) 3 images.
      try add gray scale processing to each of r,g,b(not always a good idea).




Research:
pseudocolor image processing(color intesity as gray values maybe)
chromacity diagram,color gamut
radiance luminance brightness;
dimlight vision;
brightness adapation (human)
Optical illusions
simultaneous contrast.
false contouring

Todo:
copy of Em spectrum
ligth prism experiment;
24bit color cube

Graphs:

rgb-hsi,
log,power law;


Shaders and filters:
Gamma is power law
Contrast is Contrast Stretching
hsi.glsl-/color conversion hsi manipulation,COntrast